Hospital Management System

Introduction
Since the vast development in IT industry, many other fields also has been leveled up with these new technologies, Medicine can be named as a such area. A Hospital Management System (HMS) is a web based application which helps to fulfill the tasks in a hospital system and to make it a paperless environment. And besides that to hold every information about the doctors, wards, nurses, prescriptions and every other materials regarding this field.
Problem
Healthcare is the most critical aspect of our society, and many health care providers face challenges to offer practical and active services to patients. Hospital is a very busy place which people come and go daily in high amount, so in such situation managing financial, hospital administration and health aspect is challenging task to be fulfilled. So the requirement of HSM occur when considering all these facts.
Solution
By considering these all issues we invent a new solution as a software, we call it as a Hospital Management System. This system will help to reduce the complexity of the day to day life of the people who work in this field and let them provide their 100% effort to improve the customer experience with this field of work. The whole process which has done by the hospital staff by using the paper works will be able to continue via this system.
Functionality
The main functionality can be divided in to three parts as Doctor booking, Nurse allocation and Patient registration. When at the Doctor booking as Doctor, Doctor name, Room number and time will be collected. Then after the booking relevant nurse will be allocated automatically. For this function system will look for the Nurse details from the database. After provide Nurse time table will be auto updated. Nurse can be identified by using Nurse ID, Nurse name and Nurse category. After booking the Doctor, the next task is registering the Patient to the system. For Patient Registration Patient has to provide Patient details to the system as Patient name, contact number, age and the address. Then the Patient will receive the receipt for the appointment regarding the Doctor.  Room management also done using this application, Room Identity, Room allocation, Room category, Room amount are stored in there. The charges for hospital services are display in digital Bill, this Bill has a Bill identity, Bill date, Bill amount and Bill classification. From hospital staff Nurse has special access over this solution, since the Nurse has a special Nurse login. Each Ward store in this application with their information such as Ward allocation, Ward containing floor, Ward category, free space in the Ward, and number of beds in the Ward. Each Ward contains the Nurse who allocated. From the hospital staff Attendant is also main roll in this solution, each Attendant has Attendant identity, Attendant working hours, Attendant allocated Ward and Attendant salary. Even the Attendant hasn’t much access on this solution, Attendant has got a special Attendant login. Some private hospitals has their own Pharmacy, to adopt to such situation this app has a Pharmacy page also, it contains Pharmacy identification, Pharmacy address, Pharmacy professional experiences, Pharmacy working hours, Pharmacy age and Pharmacy contact data.    