Hotel Management System

Introduction
With the vast improvement in tourism industry the other business areas that are merged with that also have to improved according to the frequency of their root industry. Hotel industry is a major business area that have to consider regarding the tourism. The quality of the service in the hotel industry directly affect to the future of the tourism.
Problem
As to the development in hotel industry it’s unable to continue with the conventional qualities by considering more facts. People are busy with their fast moving life styles, therefore their mind set also accommodate as to their day to day life. So we can’t expect the patient and friendliness from the customers like that by offering them the old, conventional hospitality processes. If they have to stand in a row before booking a room in a hotel by selecting a book won’t fit in to the culture of this modern society. If they have to open their room’s door for unknown waiter to book their meal, it won’t be a good friendly, free environment that they expect by having a holiday in a hotel by staying away from their busy hard lives. Specially these issues occur with the foreign customers, therefore the hotel industry must always improve with the international standards. 
Solution
By considering these all issues we invent a new solution as a software, we call it as a Hotel Management System. This system will help to the people who work in this industry to improve their day to day business profits and the customers will able to have a good service which fulfill their desires as they wish. As to our proposed system the whole process which has done by the hotel staff will be continued via our software solution.
Functionality
The main functionality can be divided in to five parts as Customer registration, Room booking Menu booking, Bill management and Inventory management. When at the Customer registration as Customer details Customer name, contact number and gender will be collected by the system. Then after the registration Customer can select the Room category if it is single Room or double Room and as the subcategory can whether it should be luxury Room or deluxe Room one from the stored Rooms in the system database. After selecting the Room Customer can select the Menu as to their desire. Each Menu has as its Menu ID, quantity and a specific Menu price. When the Customer is going to leave the hotel the Bill calculation will be done by calculating the all services which has been used by the Customer, this bill contains a Bill ID, Bill quantity, Bill validation and a Bill signature. When an Inventory report should be issued, this Inventory contains an Inventory ID, Inventory status and an Inventory type, when all these fields are fully filled the Inventory can be accepted via the system. Adding and updating the Manager is also done by using this application, when registering a new Manager there must be a Manager identity, Manager name and Manager contact number. Receptionist management also done via this solution, each Receptionist contains Receptionist number, Receptionist Name, Receptionist address, Receptionist has a less permissions when using this, therefore the access permission of the Receptionist also must be specified. The Owner of the hotel has a special access in this application, since the Owner has the rights to know about the whole areas in the hotel, Owner has a special Owner login and Owner just have provided owner credentials in there to access the Owner’s pages in there. And the Invoice also can be managed using this. Each Invoice contains a special Invoice status, Invoice identity, Invoice date and Invoice amount.
Team profile
Our developing team consists of three software developers and one software tester. They are well experienced and qualified employees who are working in the industry since 5-10 years. 
